hey everyone so two years at Cambridge
are now complete whoo I'm so happy but I
thought let's make a review video and
look back on my second year at Cambridge
it's been intense I'm not gonna
sugarcoat it I thought I was ready for
it I'm not sure it was but got through
it it has been great like don't get me
wrong I've had the best year but also
there have been stressful moments so I
thought let's talk out let's review the
Year self assess self reflect it's going
to be a constructive exercise for me and
for you guys here is my review of my
second year at Cambridge I'm going to be
completely honest with you guys and tell
you my honest thoughts and opinions I
have got so many notes here so let's get
started so let's jump in on the academic
side of things in my second year I took
three modules that were physics a
physics B and mathematics I had less
contact hours in my second year than I
did in my first year I only had 20
contact hours a week this year compared
to 25 contact hours a week last year and
that's mostly due to the fact that I
only took three modules in my second
year at compared to four in my first
year and also the modules I chose
weren't that lab heavy for my to physics
modules I just had one lab a week and
I've got to say it was much nicer only
having to juggle three modules than the
four I had to juggle in first year the
University recommends we spend about 40
hours a week on studying so with 20
contact hours that meant I had twenty
hours for independent study per week
this year just want to add that most
weeks I studied more than the
recommended 40 hours when you're not
naturally top of the class and still
want to get a good grade you got to put
those extra hours in my director of
study said to me at the start of the
year that it would involve a lot more
reading around the subject than first
year but to be honest I found the
lecture notes really quite comprehensive
and didn't have to resort to many
textbooks at all this year so I thought
I'd give you a brief
run-through of the topics have actually
been studying for my course this year so
in physics a we started with a course on
experimental methods it was quite a dry
start to the year all about the best
ways to eliminate errors and good
experimental practice and all that so it
wasn't the most exciting start but then
we got into a bit of oscillations waves
and optics which wasn't too bad then my
favorite part of the physics a course
was quantum mechanics and then we did
condensed matter physics as well at the
end of the year so that was one module
that was physics a then in physics B we
did electromagnetism classical dynamics
and thermodynamics and honestly I found
physics be the most interesting module I
took this year it was by far the hardest
but also the most interesting I think I
put the most time into my physics B
module this year out of the three and
then my third module was maths and in
that it's all just math techniques that
are useful for physical sciences so he
did differential equations Fourier
transforms calculus of variations
functions of a complex variable group
theory and quite a few more that's just
naming a few of the topics we did I'd
say maths was my favorite module just
because I found it the easiest and you
do tend to like the things you're good
at right so I had nine lectures a week
this year some lecturers were better
than others or I guess a better way to
put it as the some lecturing styles are
suited better to some people than others
and naturally I'm going to prefer some
lecturing styles more yes I did often
get lost in some lectures like I'd be
sitting there and think I've no longer
got any clue what the lecturer is going
on about but then I look around the room
and I think how many other people in
this lecture theater are actually
getting this because I think it is quite
common to get lost in the lectures you
know it's tricky stuff physics it's not
easy I tried my best and if I did ever
get lost in a lecture my first thought
was let's get back to my room get the
lecture notes out and read over them and
try and understand it I made flashcards
on my lecture courses as I went along I
felt that was just the most efficient
way to do it and I annotated my lecture
notes so so much I've never seen more
annotated lecture notes in my life and
all this highlighting going on but it's
just the way I learn and then I had
three super visions per week which are
small group teaching sessions with a PhD
student or a Teaching Fellow at one of
the college's I definitely found there a
good chance to ask questions especially
when something had gone completely over
my head in lectures although I sometimes
did find this year that I just didn't
know where to start I don't even know
what to ask questions about because I
don't even know what I'm not
understanding because it's just so
confusing but my math supervisor in
particular this year was so good at
explaining things clearly he just had a
complete knack for teaching and it would
be a lot harder to keep up with the
content in the lecture courses if it
wasn't for these super visions where we
can ask questions because you can't
really stick your hand up in the middle
of a lecture for our super visions we
had to complete problem sheets each week
which were based on the stuff we'd
studied in lectures and then hand them
in for our supervisors to mark we were
only given maybe five or six questions
per week per module and you'd think
that's not many questions to do but let
me tell you I spent hours and hours
some weeks staring at these questions
and just not getting anywhere
these questions are designed to be
challenging and everyone spent a long
time looking at them and it was quite
frustrating at first getting used to the
fact that I would have to spend these
hours just staring and staring at it but
you get used to work and sometimes I
just have to come to terms with the fact
that I was going to hand in my best
attempt at the work and my answers were
not gonna be perfect or even complete as
I mentioned earlier I had one lab per
week and it lasted all day 10:00 till
5:45 that's all
eight hours and it was a bit of a shock
to the system I'm not gonna lie
sometimes the labs did drag I don't
think I'm cut out to be an experimental
physicist although I feel like if it was
cutting-edge stuff it would be a lot
more interesting the labs were given a
mostly chosen for ease of showing us
best experimental practice and all that
jazz we get a manual for the labs for
each week and you have a notebook which
you have to record everything you do in
the lab and like they're getting us used
to actually making detailed enough notes
in our lab books to keep a record of
what we've done and then we hand those
books in for marking at the end of the
day those are assessed and 25 percent of
our grade comes from those labs they
were okay you like you get to decide
when you take your lunch break and all
that so they kind of get you used to
managing your own time which I guess is
good I also had to write one lab report
over the course of the year which is
handed in for assessment and then I did
a presentation which was it was like a
team presentation for a extended
investigation we did in labs I feel like
maybe some more lab report assignments
should be chucked into second year
because if you only write one lab report
over the course of the whole year you're
not going to make that much progress
with learning how to write a lab report
well we were supposed to have a coding
project for my physics B module in
Python but then that got cancelled which
I'm quite disappointed about because I
do want to learn to code I think it's a
really key skill I think actually over
the next few weeks in the summer holiday
I am going to teach myself Python but
yeah normally the course would have that
in they just didn't get it ready in time
for us to complete this year what's made
things a bit easier in second year is
that there's definitely been more
overlap between my modules than there
was in first year like I was lectured on
Fourier transforms so many times this
year and I'm like oh cool I already know
this stuff I think I've already alluded
to the fact that the content was so much
more conceptually challenging this year
but I've also found
the second-year course really really
interesting and I'm so glad I opted for
these modules I was obviously towing and
throwing between physics and chemistry
at the start of the year and I'm so glad
I went down the physics routes I was
gonna be scared off everyone was like
it's a really hard subject combination
but I've done fine I've got on with it
well I suppose let's talk quickly about
the academic environment in Cambridge so
three weeks into my second year I was in
tears on the phone to my parents I had I
guess that says it all really doesn't it
it was just because I felt like I wasn't
keeping up with the work and I was
having a bit of a mini breakdown looking
back it's ridiculous
I had nothing to be upset or worried
about I was doing fine but I was just
putting so much pressure on myself at
that point I did start second year like
all guns blazing I'm gonna blitz this
year it's gonna be great I've got this
yeah it just caused me to get very very
stressed very very quickly like three
weeks into the year realistically how
much is there to be stressed about it
was just how I was feeling at the time
and I've got to get better at learning
how to deal with the academic pressure
that comes with Cambridge towards the
end of my first term this year I did
fall behind a bit with supervision work
and keeping up with lectures I was
getting very bogged down with making
sure I understood everything perfectly
as I went along if I didn't fully
understand a topic I would go over and
over and over it I would read over the
lecture notes more I do some more
practice questions I'd remarked them but
during the cambridge term that only
eight weeks long there just isn't time
to do all that and sometimes you need to
leave some of your review work to the
end of term or to the holiday because
you've got to move on to the next topic
and lectures are progressing
supervisions are progressing you can't
afford to be wasting time on stuff that
happened one week ago one you need to be
learning the new week's content and I
did kind of realise that after my first
term of
I had a bit of a perfectionist mindset
in my first term of this year and it
didn't really help me out and then you
know work ticked on through my second
and third terms I started preparing for
exams did my exams which were hard work
as you saw in my vlogs going into exams
I'll admit I definitely didn't know
every single detail of my courses but I
honestly think that would have been
impossible I don't think anyone knows
every detail of the lecture courses
apart from the lecturers themselves to
be honest because there's so much course
content you can give it a good shot and
that's what I did
I studied mostly in my room this year or
in the Jesus College Library which I
keep going on about but honestly the
Jesus College Library is the nicest
library I've ever seen I also went to
the archaeology library quite a lot
between lectures which was quite handy
because it was right near the lecture
theatre where my lectures were held this
year I definitely spend a lot more time
or an academic work this year than I did
in my first year and my time management
has definitely improved from my first
year so you know quite proud of myself
I'm doing okay having finished two years
at Cambridge now I know how fast-paced
the work be throughout the year I have
had regular meetings with my director of
studies and they track your progress I
did feel like it was really
well-organized I liked the course
structure a lot so yeah it's been a good
year academically speaking I came out
with a good grade
the only issue I've had with it really
is just my stress levels which is
something I need to work on I was ready
to leave Cambridge at the end of the
year I was like get me out of here but
you know some time away from Cambridge
over the summer has been good and I'm
looking forward to getting back to the
next year of academic work and it turns
out I've got quite a lot to say about my
second year of university so I've
decided to split this video into two
parts this is the end of part 1 thank
you very much for watching and part two
will be coming next Tuesday there is
also something very exciting happening
at the end of part 2
so get ready please do give this video a
like if you enjoyed it if you subscribe
you're my new best friend hit the
notification bell you know you want to
do it
and I'll see you soon with another video
bye
[Music]